# Magic_the_Gathering_Arena_Quick_Draft_Data
The purpose of this project was to determine if there is indeed bias in the 5 color scheme in Magic the Gathering's quick draft format. For years, players of MtG have complained about there being imbalances and bias with certain colors in the game. and now I want to see if the data can back those claims up For background, in Magic the Gathering, the game revolves around 5 different colors: blue, white, red, green, and black. These colors have their own special characteristics that sets them apart from each other, for example, red's main characteristic is that decks of this color try to damage opponents quickly and directly with cards known as "burn spells"  and black's characteristic is that the player tries to use their graveyard to their advantage. Of course, these colors have much more characteristics than that and some cards usually break the mold in terms of being able to use features usually only seen in other colors. What I want to see is if there is a color that has an advantage over the others which gives it a higher success rate. The data used was gathered from the online game Magic the Gathering Arena (17lands.com/card_ratings), specifically in the quick draft format, which you can learn about here: https://magicarena.fandom.com/wiki/Quick_Draft  I also wanna see if I am able to predict the colors of the cards by simply using the success rates of each card using RandomForest. Special thanks to the team at 17Lands for making this project possible.
